# Variables In Javascript

JavaScript variables are used to store and manipulate data in a program. They are used to hold values such as numbers, strings, and arrays.

There are three types of variables in JavaScript:

1. `var`: Variables declared with the var keyword are function scoped, meaning they are only accessible within the function in which they are defined. If a variable is declared with var outside of any function, it becomes a global variable and can be accessed from anywhere in the program.

```js
var myName = "John Doe"
console.log(`Hello ${myName}`)
```

> It's worth noting that var is an older keyword and it's used less frequently nowdays, most developers prefer let and const for variable decleration.

2. `let`: Variables declared with the let keyword are block scoped, meaning they are only accessible within the block in which they are defined. This allows for better control of variable scope and can help prevent accidental variable overwrites.

```js
let myName = "John Doe"
console.log(`Hello ${myName}`)
```

3. `const` : Variables declared with the const keyword are also block scoped, but they cannot be reassigned after they have been initialized. These variables are commonly used to store values that should not be changed.
```js
const myName = "John Doe"
const myName = "John Doeee" // cannot reassign like this
console.log(`Hello ${myName}`)
```
## When to use `let` and when to use `const` ?


`let` and `const` are used to declare variables in JavaScript. The main difference between the two is in their level of immutability.

`let` should be used when you need to reassign a variable within the same block. For example, you might use let to declare a variable that keeps track of the number of times a user clicks a button, or to store the current value of an input field.

```js
let counter = 0;
counter = counter + 1;
```

On the other hand, `cost` should be used when you want to prevent a variable from being reassigned. This is useful when you need to store a value that should not change, such as a constant or a configuration setting.


```js
const pi = 3.14;
```
It's worth noting that, even though you can't reassign the variable, you can still mutate the value of the variable if it's an object or an array.

In general, it's a good practice to use `const` by default, and only use let if you know you'll need to reassign the variable. This makes it clear that the variable's value should not change and helps prevent bugs caused by accidentally overwriting a variable's value.
